`CIA - Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability

`AAA - Authentication, Authority, Accouting

Mitigate Threat - Physical Controls, Technical Controls, Administrative(Managerial) Controls

`Hackers - White hats, Black Hat, Gray Hat, Blue hat, Elite

`Threat Actors - Script Kiddies, Hacktivist, Organized Crime, Advanced Persisten Threats(Nation State)

Timeless, Relevancy, Accurancy, Confidence Levels, 
MISP Project
    Propriety
    Closed-Source
    Open-Source

Open Source Intelligence(OSINT) - information from public

Threat Hunting

Attack Framework
    Lockhead Martin Kill Chain
    MITRE Attack Framework
    Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis
    
---------------------------------------------------------- Section 2
Malware - malicious software
    Virus
    Worm
    Trojan house(Remote Access Trojan)
    Ransomware
    Spyware
    Rootkits
    Spam

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 3
Malware
    Threat Vector
    Attack Vector

Watering Hole
        
Botnet - 

Active Interception - 

Privilege Escalation -

Backdoor and Logic bomb 
    Easter Egg - non malicious code, that can attack.

Removing Malware
    Identify
    Quarantine
    Disable System Restore
    Remediate
    Schedule Automatic Updates and Scan
    Re-Enable System
    Educated User

Preventing Malware
    Use whitelist & Blacklist
    update Malware
    operating Updates
    train User

Malware Exploitation
    Dropper
    Maintain access
    Strengthen access
    Action on objectives
    Concealment
---------------------------------------------------------- Section 3
Software Firewall
    Host-based Firewall
        Windows Firewall
        OSX - MAC Firewall
        IPtable - Linux Firewall

Intrusion Detection System - Monitor system or network analyzed data passing 
    HIDS - Hose-based IDS(Software)
    NIDS - Network-based IDS(Hardware)

        Signature-based
        Policy-based
        Anomaly-based

True Positive
True Negative
False Positive
False Negative

IDS can only log and alert

IPS - can also stop malicious activity from being executed.  

Pop-up Blockers-
Content Filter-

Data Loss Prevention(DLP) - Monitor data of a system while in use, to detech
attempts to steal the data

Endpoint DLP System
Network DLP System
Storage DLP System
Cloud DLP System

Securing BIOS(Basic Input Output System)
UEFI(Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) - Same as Bios but updated

    Flashing the BIOS
    Use A BIOS Password
    COnfigure Bios
    Disblae port you dont need
    Enable the secure boot

Securing Storage Devicess
    Encrypt Files

    Removable media Controls
    Network Attach Storage(NAS)
        RAID
    Storage Area Network(SAN)
    
Disk Encryption 
    Hardware or Software Base

    (Hardware)Self-Encryption Drive(SED)

    Bitlocker

    Trusted Platform Module(TPM) - Chip residing on the motherboard that
    contains Encryption key.

    **Advanced Encryption Standard - Symmetric key Encryption that support 
    128-bit and 256-bit keys.

    Hardware Security Module (HSM)

Endpoint Analysis
    Anti-Virus(AV) - remove and detect malware
    HIDS/HIPS - Monitor computer system
    EPP - software agent and monitoring system that performs multiple security task
    EDR - software agent that collects system data and logs
    UEBA - can preven automatedd identification of activity

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 4
Securing Wireless Devices
    Wifi - 
        WPA2,
        AES(Advanced Encryption Standard) 
    Bluetooth

Mobile Malware
    Use Anti-Virus
    Update Patch
    Download from the main site(Google Play, Apple Store)

    Do not jailbreak/root device
    Dont use custom fireware 
    Only load official store apps
    Update operating system

SIM Cloning & ID Theft
    SIM(Subscriber Identity Module)

Bluetooth Attack
    Bluejacking - sending information
    BlueSnarlfing - taking infromation

Mobile Device Theft
    Encrypt Device
    Remote lock option
    Remote Wipe

Security App
    Install application in offical site
    HTTPS/TLS
    Mobile Device Management(MDM)
    Allow Location Access
    Geotagging

BYOD 
    Bring your own device
    Storage segmentation
    CYOD - Choose your own device

Hardening Mobile Devices
    Update your device
    Install antivirus
    Train user on proper security
    Install app only in official
    Do not root or jailbreak
    Use V2 SIM card
    Turn off necessary features
    Turn on encryption on your Data
    Use strong password
    Don't allow BYOD

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 6
Unnecessary application
    Least Functionality
    SCCM - System Center Configuration Management

Restricting applications
    Application whitelist
    Application Blacklist

Trusted Operating

Update and Patches
    Security Update
    Critical Update
    Service Pack
    Windows Update
    Drive Update

Patch Management
    Planning
    Testing
    Deploy
    Auditing

Group Policy
    Microsoft Group Policy Object(GPO)

File Systems and Harddrive
    NTFS or FAT32 - for Windows
    EXT4 - Linux
    APFS - MAC 

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 7 Need to get better
Supply Chain Assessment
    Trusted Computing Environment
    Due Diligence
    Trusted Foundry - united states department of defense/ Military
    Hardware Source Authenticity

Root of Trust(ROT)
    Digital Certificate
    Trusted Platform Module(TPM) - allows to ability to boot up with security
    Hardware Security Module(HSM) - generating and storing cryptographic keys
    Anti-Tamper -
        Anti-tamper mechanisms

Trusted Firmware    
    Firmware exploit
        Unified Extensible Firmware Interface(UEFI)
        Secure boot 
        Measured boot
        eFuse
        Trusted Firmware Update
        Self-Encrypting Drives

Secure Processing
    Processor Security Extension
    Trusted Execution
    Secure Enclave
    Atomic Execution
    Bus Encryption(HDCP Unauthorize)

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 8
Virtualization
    VM
        System Virtual Machine
        Processor Virtual Machine

Hypervisor(Manages the distribution of the physical resources of a Host
            machine(server) to the virtual machines being run(guests))
    Type 1 - Bare Metal Hypervisor(strip down)
    Type 2 - Virtual box for sample
    Application Containerization - i.e. Docker

Threat Virtual Machine
    Elasticity - scale up, scale down
    Data Remnants - 
    Privilege Elevation -

Virtual machine escape vulnerabilities are the most severe issue that 
may exist in a virtualized environment. 
In this attack, the attacker has access to a single virtual host and 
then leverages that access to intrude on the resources assigned 
to different virtual machines.

Securing VM
    
----------------------------------------------------------  Section 9
Application Security

Web Browser Security - security patches,updating
        Implement Policies
        Train your user
        Use proxy & Content Filter
        Prevent Malicious Code

Cookies
    Tracking Cookies 
    Session Cookie
    Locally Shared Object(LSO)
    Add-ons
    Advanced Security Options

Securing Application
    User password protecting in the documents
    Macro settings
    *User Account Control* - prevent unauthorized access and avoids user
    error in the form of accidental changes.

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 10
SDLC(Software Development Life Cycle) - is an organized process of developing
a secure application throughout the life of the project.

SLDC Phases

Waterfall - Good for complex project and great for high security but takes time.
    Planning and Analysis
    Software/System design
    Implementation
    Testing
    Integration
    Deployment
    Maintenance

Agile - performed in time-boxed or small increment to allow productivity to changes
    Sprint
        Plan 
        design
        Develop
        Test
        Deployment
        Launch

DevOps - 

SLDC Principles
    Confidentiality
    Integrity
    Availability

    Least Proviledge
    Defense in depth
    Never Trust User Input
    Minimize Attack Defaults
    Fail Securely
    Fix Securely Issues
    Rely on trusted sources

Testing Methods -
    System testing
        Black-box Testing
        White-box Testing
        Gray Box Testing    

    Static Analysis - Source code of an application is reviewed manually
    or with automatic tools without running the code.

    Dynamic - Analysis and testing of program occurs while it is being
            executed or run.

    Fuzzing/Testing - find failures

        Backdoors
        Directory Traversal
        Remote Code Execution(RCE)
    
    Zero Day

    Buffer Overlfow - occurs when a process stores data outside the memory range
        allocated by the developer.

    Stack

    ASLR - Address Space Layput Randomization
    
Cross-Site Scripting(XSS) - Malicious scripting commands
    Stored/Presistent
    Reflecte
    DOM- Documnet object model

Cross-site Request Forgery(XSRF/CSRF)

SQL Injection - 

XML vulnerabilities - 
XML External Entity (XXE) - an attack that embeds a request for a local
                            resource.

Race Condition - software vulnerability

Design vulnerabilities
    Insecure Components
        Code Reuse
        Third Party Library
        SDK
    Insuffeucient Logging and monitoring
    Weak and Default

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 11
OSI Model - LAN & WAN
    Physical
    Data Link Layer
    Network Layer
    Transport Layer
    Session Layer
    Presentation
    Application Layer

Switches
    MAC Flooding
    MAC Spoofing
    Physical Tampering

Routers
    Access Control List

Network Zone
    DMZ - De-Militarized Zone
    Sub-Zones
    Instranets

Jumpbox - a harderned server the provides access to other hosts within the DMZ. 
    Internet-facing host
    
Network Access Control(NAC)
    Persistent Agents
    Non-Persistent Agents

VLANS

Subnetting - Act of creaing Subnetwork logically through the manipulation of IP addresses

Network Address Translation(NAT) - Process of changing an IP address
    Port Address Translation(PAT)

Telephony
    War Dialing
    Quality of Service(QoS)

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 12
Perimeter Security
Firewall    
    Software 
    Hardware
    Embedded
    Packet Filtering
        Stateless
        Stateful
    NAT Filtering
    Application-Layer gateway
    Circuit Layer gateway
    MAC Filtering
    Web Application Firewall(WAF)

Proxy Server
    IP Proxy
    Caching Proxy - Disabling Proxy(PAC file)
    Internet Content Filter
    Web Security Gateway

Honeypots and Honeynets
    
Data Loss Prevention    
    Information Leak Protection(ILP)
    Extrusion Prevention Systems(EPS)
    
NIDS and NIPS
        Intrusion Detection System(IDS) - Attempt to detect, log and alert malicious
    Intrusion Prevention Systems(IPS) - attempts to remove, detain or redirect malicious traffics.

Unified Threat Management   

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 13
Virtual Desktop Infrastructure(VDI) - Allows a cloud probvider to offer
full desktop operating system to an end user from a centralized server.
    Secure Enclaves
    Secure Volume

Cloud Types
    Public
    Private 
    Hybrid
    Community Cloud

As A Service
    Software as a Server(SAAS) - e.i. MS office
    Infrastructure as a Server(IAAS) - if you want to build your own 
    Platform as a Server(PAAS) - 3rd party vendor provide hardware and software
    Security as a Service(SECaas) - provides security

Cloud Security
    Collocated Data

Defending Server
    File server
    Email Server
    Web Server
    FTP Server
    Domain Controller
        Active Directory
    
Cloud-Based Infrastructure
    Virtual Private Cloud(VPC)

CASB(Cloud Access Security Broker)
    Enterprise Management software designed to mediate access to cloud
    services by users all types of devices.

    Benefits: Single Sign-on,Malware Detection, Monitor, and Mitigate data

    Forward Proxy,
    Reverse Proxy,
    API

API

Function as a Service(FAAS) And Serverless

Cloud Threats
    Insecure Application
    Improper Key Management
    Loggin and Monitoring
    Unprotected Storage
---------------------------------------------------------- Section 14
Workflow Orchestration

CI/CD

DevSecOPs

Infrastructure as code(IAC)

Artificial Neural Network(ANN)

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 15
Inbound 
Outbound
Well-Known Ports
Registered Ports

Memorization Port
    65,536 Port thats Available

    21 TCP - FTP
    22 TCP/UDP - SSH
    23 TCP/UDP = Telnet - NOT SAFE
    25 TCP - SMTP Mail
    53 TCP/UDP - DNS
    69 UDP - TFTP
    80 TCP - HTTP
    88 TCP/UDP - Kerberos
    110 TCP - POP3
    119 TCP - NNTP
    135 TCP/UDP - RPC/DCOM
    137-139 TCP/UDP - NetBios
    143 TCP - IMAP
    161 UDP - SNMP
    162 TCP/UDP - SNMPTRAP
    389 TCP/UDP - LDAP
    443 TCP = HTTPS
    445 TCP - SMB
    465/587 TCP - SMTP with SSL/TLS
    514 UDP = Syslog
    636 TCP/UDP - LDAP SSL/TLS
    860 TCP - iSCSI
    989/990 TCP - FTPS
    993 TCP - IMAP4 with SSL/TLS
    995 TCP - POP3 SSL/TLS
    1433 TCP - MS-SQL-Server
    1645/1646 UDP - Radius (Alternative)
    1701 UDP - L2TP
    1723 TCP/UDP - PPTP
    1812/1813 UDP - Radius
    3225 TCP/UDP - FCIP
    3260 TCP - iSCSI target
    3389 TCP/UDP - RDP
    3868 TCP - Diameter
    5414 TCP - Syslog over TLS


Unnecessary Port
    Any port is associated that you dont need
    You can stop it 

Denial of Service
    Flood Attacks
        Ping Flood
        Smurf Attack
        Fraggle Attack
        Syn Flood
        XMAS Attack

    Ping of death
    Teardrop Attack
    Permanent Denial of Service    
    Fork Bomb

DDOS
    Distributed Denial Of Service - Group of compromised attack
        DNS Amplication
    
Stopping of DDos
    Blackholing or Sinkholing
    IPS can prevent a small DDOS

Spoofing
    Use proper Authentication

Hijacking
    Session Theft
    TCP/IP Jacking
    Blind Hijacking
    clickjacking
    Man-in-the-middle
    Man-in-the-browser
    Watering hole
    Cross-site Scripting
    
Replay Attack

Null Session

Transitive Attack - Arent really attack but more coceptual method

DNS poisoning (also known as DNS cache poisoning or DNS spoofing) 
is a type of attack which uses security gaps in the Domain Name System (DNS) protocol to redirect internet traffic to malicious website

ARP Poisoning

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 16
Securing Network

Securing Network Devices
    Default Account
    Weak Passwords
    Privilege Escalation

Network Media
    Electromagnetic Interference(EMI)
    Radio Frequency Interference (RFI)
    Protected Distribution System(PDS)

Securing Wifi Devices

Wireless Encryption
    Pre=shared Key

    WEP - 802.11 Wireless Security
    Wifi Protected Access(WPA) - replacement for WEP
    WPA2 - 802.11i, AES with a 128 bit key 

    Wifi Protected Setup(WPS) - Always disable WPS


Wireless Access Point
    2.4 Ghz Signal
    5.0 Ghz Signal

Wireless Attacks
    War Chalking
    I.V. Attack
    Wifi Disassociation attack
    Brute Force Attack

WPA3 
    Wifi-Protected Access 3 - Latest

Other Wireless Technology
    Bluejacking - send information
    BlueSnarfing - Takes infromation

    Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) - 


---------------------------------------------------------- Section 17
Physical Security

Surveillance
    Pan Tilt Zoom(PTZ)
    Infared
    Ultra sonic

Door Lock
    Pin
    Electronic Door
    Mantrap

Biometric Reader
    Finger print`
    Eye Scan
    Voice Recognition
    False Acceptance Rate(FAR)
    Crossover error Rate(CER)

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 18 ******
Facility Security

Fire Surpression
    Handheld
    Spriklers
    Special Hazard

    Fire Type by class
        A - Wood, Paper 
        B - Flammable, Liquids and gases
        C - electric fire
        D - Metal
        K - Cooking oil

HVAC
    Hot and Cold Aisle

Shielding
    Shielded Twisted Pair(STP) - add layer
    Faraday Cage
    Tempest

Vehicular vulnerabilities
    Controller Area Network(CAN)
    OBD 2 for car
    Cellular
    Wifi

IOT - Internet of Things

Embedded System vulnerabilities
    Programmable Logic Controller(PLC) - 
    PLC Firmware
    System on chip(SoC)
    Real Time Operating System(Rootkits)
    Field Programmable Gate Array(FPGA)

ICS and SCADA vulnerabilities
    Operational Technology(OT)

    Industrial Control System(ICS) - 
        FieldBus - Digital serial data communications
        Human-Machine Interface(HMI) -
        Data Historian - 
    
    Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition(SCADA)

    ModBus - communications protocol used in operation network.

Mitigating vulnerabilities
    -Establish Administrative
    -Implement the minimum network links by disabling Unnecessary links
    -Develop and test a patch management program for operation Technology
    -Perform regular audits of logical and physical

Premise System
    Building automation system(BAS)
    Physical Access Control System(PACS)


---------------------------------------------------------- Section 19
Multi-factor Authentication
    Knowledge
    Ownership
    Characteristic
    Location
    Action

Authentication Model
    Context Aware - Limiting time or day - Limit geographic
    Single Sign on(SSO) - default user profile
    Federated Identity Management(FIdM) - single Identity is create for user and shared.

    Cross-Certification
    Trusted Third Authority
    Security Assertion Markup Language(SAML)
    OpenID 
 
 802.1x - Framework user port-based authentication
    Radius
    TACACS+ 

    Supplicate 
    Authenticator
    Authentication Server

    Extensible Authentication Protocol(EAP)
        A framework of protocols that allows for numerous methods of authentication including
        passwords, digital Certificats and public key Infrastructure

    EAP-MD5 - uses simple passwords 
    EAP-TLS - use digital Certificate for mutual Authentication
    EAP-TTLS - uses a server-side digital Certificate and a client-side password

    EAP-FAST -
    Protected EAP(PEAP)


LDAP and Kerberos
    LDAP - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol(LDAP) - a database used to centralize information about
            clients and objects on the network.
            ** UN-Encrypted
                PORT 389
            ** Encrypted
                PORT 636
    
    Active Directory

    Kerberos - Authentication protocol used by windows to provide for two-way or mutual authentication.
    ** PORT 88

Remote Desktop Service(RDP)

    Virtual Network Computing(VNC) - Cross Platform

    **RDP 
        PORT 3389
    ** VNC
        PORT 5900

Remote Access Service
    Paper(Password Authentication Protocol) - provide authentication(OLD)
    CHAP - Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol - Challenge
        MS-CHAP
    EAP - 

VPN - Virtual Private Network
    Client-to-Site VPN
    Remote Access VPN

    Point to Point Protocol

Radius Authentication Dial-in User Service 
    **Authentication
        PORT  1812 0r PORT 1645
    **Accounting
        Port 1813 OR 1646

Authentication Summary
    802.1x - IEEE standard that defines port-based network Access control(PNAC) and is a data link layer
            authentication Technology used to connect devices to a wired or wireless LAN.

    LDAP - Application layer protocol for accessing and modifying Directory services data

    Kerberos - Authentication protocol used in windows

    RAS(Remote access service)

    CHAP

    Radius
        **Authentication
        PORT  1812 0r PORT 1645
        **Accounting
        Port 1813 OR 1646

    TACACS+  - Cisco proprietary version of RADIUS that provides 
                separate authentication and authorization funcstion over port 49 (TCP) - NOT CROSS PLATFORM

Authentication
        Spoofing
        Man-in-the-Middle attack
        Man in the browser(MiTB)
        Password Spraying
        Credential Stuffing
        Broken Authentication
        Session hijacking

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 20 *****
Access Control
    DAC - Discretionary Access Control (DAC) - Who has the access which file.
    MAC - Mandatory Access Control - Computer decide who has the access(Data Level). "NEED TO KNOW"
    RBAC - Rule-based access control - complex mathematics to create sets of object
    ABAC - Attribute Base access control - Tags 

    **
    Role-based access control (RBAC) is a modification of DAC that provides a set of organizational roles that users may be assigned in order to gain access rights. 
    The system is non-discretionary since the individual users cannot modify the ACL of a resource. Users gain their access rights implicitly based on the groups to which
    they are assigned as members.
    **

Best Practices
    Implicit Deny
    Least Priviledge
    Separation Duties
    Job Rotation
    Mandatory Vacation

Users and Group
    User rights

    Chmod
        R(Read) = 4
        W(Write) = 2
        X(Execute = 1
    Example: chmod 760 filename

    7 = owner can RWX
    6 = group can RW
    0 = All users (No Access)

    Privilege Creep
    User Access Recertification

Permission

Username and Password

User Account Control(UAC) - a security component in windows that keeps every user in standard user mode instead of
                            acting like an Administrative user.

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 21 ***
Risk Assessment
    Avoid   
    Transfer
    Mitigate
    Accept

Qualitative Analysis

Quantitative Risk - Uses numerical and monetary values to calculate risk
                    Analysis calculate  
    Single loss expentency(SLE) - Cost associated with the realization of each individual threat
    Annualized Rate of Occurrence(ARO) - how many times threay in a year.
    Annualized Loss Expectancy(ALE) - 

Methodologies
    Security Assessment
        vulnerability Search
        PenTEST
    
    Active Assessment
    Passive Assessment

Security Controls
    Physical Controls
    Technical Controls
    Admnistrative Controls

    NIST Categories
    Operational Controls
    Technical Controls

    Preventive Control
    Detective Control
    Corrective Control

    Compensating Control

Security Risk
    External
    Internal
    Legacy
    Multiparty
    IP Theft 
    Software Compliance/Licensing



Transference (or sharing) means assigning risk to a third party (such as an insurance company or a contract with a supplier that defines liabilities). 
Avoidance means that the company stops doing the activity that is risk-bearing. Risk mitigation is the overall process of reducing exposure to or the effects of risk factors, such as by patching a vulnerable system. 
Acceptance means that no countermeasures are put in place either because the level of risk does not justify the cost or because there will be an unavoidable delay before the countermeasures are deployed.


---------------------------------------------------------- Section 22***
Vulnera Management
    Steps: 1 through 5
    -Define the desired state of security
    -Create a baseline
    -Prioritize vulnerabilities
    -Mitigate vulnerabilities
    -Monitor the network and systems

Penetration Test
    Black Box Testing
    White Box Testing
    White-Box Testing

    Metasploit and Canvas are commonly used
        Pivot
        Persistence
    
OVAL - Open vulnerability and Assessment Language - use to share data with different tools that focusing in risk assessment
    Oval Language XL
    Oval Interpreter

Vulnerability Assessment 
    Network Mapping - Discovery and documentation of physical and logical connectivity(Example tool: ZENMAP)
    Vulnerability Scanning - a technique that identifies threats on the network without exploiting them
    Network Sniffing - The process of finding and investigating other computers on the network by analyzing the network traffic or capturing the packets(It called packet sniffer or packet sniffer)

    Password Analysis - A tool used to test strength of your password to ensure your password policies are being followed
        -Password Cracker
        -Password Guessing
        -Brute force Attack
        -Cryptanalysis Attack

NOTE****
Nmap sends specially crafted packets to the target host(s) and then analyzes the responses to determine the open ports and services running on those hosts. 
In addition, nmap can determine the versions of the applications being used on those ports and services. Nmap is a command-line tool for use on Linux, Windows,
 and macOS systems.


A brute-force attack when an attacker uses a set of predefined values to attack a target and analyze the response until he succeeds.
Success depends on the set of predefined values. If it is larger, then it will take more time, but there is a better probability of success. 
In a traditional brute-force attack, the passcode or password is incrementally increased by one letter/number each time until the right passcode/password is found.


---------------------------------------------------------- Section 23 **
Monitoring Types
    Signature-Based - Network traffic is analyzed for predetermined attack patterns
    Anomaly-Based - A baseline is established and any network traffic that is outside of the baseline is evaluated
    Behavior-Based - Activity is evaluated based on the previous behavior of applications, executables and operating system in comparison to the current activity of system

Performance Baselining - process if measuring changes in networking, hardware, software and application
    -Baseling reporting
    -Security Posture

Protocol Analyzer are used to campture and analyze network traffic
    Promiscuous Mode
    Non-Promiscuous Mode
    Port-Mirroring
    Network Tap

Simple Network Management Protocol(SNMP) - TCP/IP protocol that aids in monitoring network-attached devices and computers.
    Managed Devices
    Agents
    (NPM) Network Management System

    V1/V2 are insecure due
    SNMP V3 - that provides integrity, authentication and encryption - USE THIS

Auditing - Technical assessment(is a detective control)    

Logging - Data files that contain the Accounting and audit trail for actions performed by a user on the computer or network.
    Security Logs
    System Logs 
    Application Logs
    Syslog - A standardized format used for computer message loggin that allows for the separation of the software that generates messages, the system 
        that stores them, and the software that reports and analyzes them. PORT 514
    
Log File
    Log File Maintenance

SIEM

SOAR - Security Orchestration Automation n and Response - a class of security tools taht facilitates incident response threat hunting, and security Configuration
        by orchestrating automated runbooks and delivering data enrichment

        SOAR is primarily used for incident response
        

****
Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is commonly used to gather information from routers, switches, and other network devices. 
It provides information about a device's status, including CPU and memory utilization, as well as many other useful details about the device. 
NetFlow provides information about network traffic. A management information base (MIB) is a database used for managing the entities in a communication network. 
The Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is a communication protocol for electronic mail transmission.

A security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) is used to facilitate incident response, threat hunting, 
and security configuration by orchestrating automated runbooks and delivering data enrichment. A SOAR may be implemented as a standalone technology or 
integrated within a SIEM as a next-gen SIEM. A SOAR can scan the organization's store of security and threat intelligence, 
analyze it using machine/deep learning techniques, and then use that data to automate and provide data enrichment for the workflows that drive 
incident response and threat hunting.

The syslog server is a centralized log management solution. By looking through the logs on the syslog server, the technician could determine which 
service failed on which server, since all the logs are retained on the syslog server from all of the network devices and servers.

****

---------------------------------------------------------- Section 24 ************
Cryptography - practice and study of writing and solving codes on order to hide the true meaning of information.

        Encryption - process of converting ordinary(plaintext) into an unintelligible form (ciphertext).

        Data at Rest - inactive data that is archived such as data resident on a hard drive.

        Data in Use - data that in undergoing constant change

        Cipher is an algorithm which performs the encryption or decryption


Symmetric and Asymmetric
    Symmetric(Private Key) - Encryption algorithm in which both sender and the receiver must know the same secret using privately held key.
    Asymmetric - (Public Key) - Encryption algorithm where different keys are used to Encrypt and decrypt the data.

    Stream cipher - utilize a keystream generator to Encrypt data bit using a mathematical XOR function

    Block Cipher - Breaks the input into fixed-length blocks of data and performs the encryption on each block.


Symmetric algorithm
    DES - Encryption algorithm which breaks the input into 64 bit, create ciphertext using key strength of 56 bits(Not secure, was use back in 70's)
    3DES - 3x56 bits that was use
    IDEA(International data encryption algorithm) - Symmetric block cipher which use 64 bit to Encrypt plaintext into cipher (128 bits)
    AES(Advanced Encryption Standard) - Symmetric block cipher that uses 128 bit, 192 bit or 256 bit and matching encryption key in to Encrypt into ciphertext. (Widely use)
    Blowfish - Symmetric block cipher that uses 64 bit blocks and  a variable length encryption key to Encrypt plaintext into ciphertext.
    Two Fish - 128 bit block, 128-bit, 192-bit or 256-bit
    RC4(Rivest Cipher) -  cipher using variable key size from 40-bits to 2048-bits that is used in SSL and WEP-- ONLY STREAM CIPHER THE REST IS BLOCK CIPHER
    RC5 - 2048-bit replace DES and AES
    RC6 - 



Public Key Cryptography
    Use Key Pair(Private key and Public Key)
    Digital Signature -

    TIPS - Asymmetric encryption is also know as public key Cryptography.
            Two key are used, Encrypt it and decrypt

Asymmetric algorithm
    Diffie-Hellman - used to conduct key exchanges and secure key(Widely setting VPN or Encrypting tunnel)
    RSA(Rivest, Shamir and Adleman) - Asymmetric algorithm that relies on the mathematical difficulty of factoing large primer numbers. (1024-bits to 4096-bits)
    ECC(Elliptic Curve Cryptography) - algorithm that is based upon the algebraic structure of elliptic curves over finite fields to define the keys(Heavely use in MOBILE DEVICES)

    ECDH
    ECDHE
    ECDSA


Pretty Good Privacy(PGP) - encryption program used for signing, encryption and decrypting emails(Symmetric functions use 128-bit or higher and Asymmetric function use 512 to 2048 bit)
    (GNU)Privacy Guard - 


Key Management - Refers how to generate, exchange, store


One-Time PAD - stream cipher that Encrypt plaintext information with a secret random key that in the same length as the plaintext input.

Cryptography Considerations
    Blockchain - shared immutable ledger for recording transactions tracking assets and building trust.
    Public ledger - keeping record system that Maintain participants identities
    Quantum Computing - a computer that uses quantum mechanics to generate and manipulate quantum bits(qubits) in order to access enormous processing powers.
    Quantum communication - communication network that relies on qubits made of protons(light) to send multiple combinations of 1s
    Ephemeral - short lived used in the key exchange for WPA3


**
Elliptic-curve cryptography (ECC) is an approach to public-key cryptography based on the algebraic structure of elliptic curves over finite fields. As a public-key cryptosystem, 
it relies on an asymmetric algorithm. Twofish, RC4, and DES are all symmetric algorithms.


The only truly unbreakable encryption is one that uses a one-time use pad. This ensures that every message is encrypted with a different shared key that only the two owners of the one-time use pad would know.
 This technique ensures that there is no pattern in the key for an attacker to guess or find. Even if one of the messages could be broken, all of the other messages would remain secure since they use different 
 keys to encrypt them. Unfortunately, one-time use pads require that two identical copies of the pad are produced and distributed securely before they can be used.

The most likely explanation is that the user utilized steganography to hide the leaked data inside the photos from their trip. Steganography is the process of hiding one message inside another. 
By hiding the customer’s information within the digital photos, the incident response team would not be able to see the data being hidden without knowing to look for it inside the seemingly
 benign pictures from the trip.


**


---------------------------------------------------------- Section 25
Hashing - one way cryptographic function
    Message(MD5) - algorithm that creates a value fixed-length 128-bit hash value unique to the input file.
        Collision - 
    Secure Hash algorithm(SHA)
        SHA1 - creates fixed-length 160 bit hash value unique to the input file.
        SHA2 - Family of algorithm that includes SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-348 and SHA 512
        SHA3 - 224-bits and 512-bits

    RACE Integrity Primitive Evaluation Message Digest (RIPEMD) - open source hash algorithm that creates unique 160-bit, 256 bit or 320 bit
    Hash based message authentication code(HMAC) -  create a level of assurance

    HMAC-MD5
    HMAC-SHA1
    HMAC-SHA256

    Digital Signature
    Code Signing - Delopers

    Password
        LANMAN(LM HASH) - old version, 14 characters, Weak(develop back in 80's)
        NT LAN MANAGER HASH(NTLM Hash)  -
        NTLMv2 Hash - replacement on the NTLM Hash that uses HMAC-MD5 and is considered difficult to crack.


Hashing Attack
    Pass the HASH - A technique that allows an attacker to authenticate to a remote server or service by using underlying NTLM or LM hash instead of requiring plaintext password.

    Birthday Attack - find 2 different messages that have the same identical hash digest.



Increasing Hash Security
    Key Stretching
    Salting






**
TIPS 
    - Anything with integrity means it involves HASH
    
    2 most use HASh
         MD5 - less secure
         SHA - more secure

    SHA-1 creates a 160-bit fixed output. 
    SHA-2 creates a 256-bit fixed output. 
    NTLM creates a 128-bit fixed output. 
    MD-5 creates a 128-bit fixed output.



    In cryptography, key stretching techniques are used to make a possibly weak key, typically a password or passphrase, more secure against a brute-force attack 
    by increasing the resources it takes to test each possible key. The question describes one such key stretching technique.

**


---------------------------------------------------------- Section 26 ***
Public Key Infrastructure - entire system of hardware, software, policies and people
    Certficate Authority

Digital Certificate - digitally signed electronic documents that bind a public key with a users identity
    X.509 - standard used PKI for digital certificates and contains the owner/user
    Wildcard Certificate
    Single-sided certificates
    Dual-sided certificates

    BER - The original ruleset governing the encoding of data structures for certificates where several different encoding types can be utilized
    CER - 
    DER

Registration Authority - Used to verify information about a user priot to requesting that a certificate Authority issue the certificate
    Certificate Authority
    Certificate Revocation List(CRL) - an online list of digital certificates that the certificate Authority has revoked.

    Online Certificate Status Protocol(OCSP) - check status of certificate

    Public Key Pinning

    Key Escrow - secure copy of a users private key is help just in case the user loses their key.
    Key Recovery Agent - 

Web of Trust
    

***

TIPS

-- Transitive trust occurs when X trusts Y, and Y trusts Z, therefore X trusts Z. This is because the trust flows from the first part (Dion Training) through the second party
 (Thor Teaches) to the third party (Udemy).


-- Non-repudiation occurs when a sender cannot claim they didn’t send an email when they did. A digital signature should be attached to each email sent to achieve 
non-repudiation. This digital signature is comprised of a digital hash of the email’s contents, and then encrypting that digital hash using the sender’s private key. 
The receiver can then unencrypt the digital hash using the sender’s public key to verify the integrity of the message.


A CSR (certificate signing request) is what is submitted to the CA (certificate authority) to request a digital certificate. 
Key escrow stores keys, 
CRL is a list of revoked certificate, and the 
OCSP is a status of certificates that provides validity such as good, revoked, or unknown


***



---------------------------------------------------------- Section 27

Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions(S/MIME) - Standard that provides cryptographic security for electronic messaging
        can encrypt emails and their contents


SSL & TLS - 
    SSL - securing web (OLD)
    TLS - Secure 


Secure Shell Protocol - protocol that can create  secure channel between two computer or network devices to enable one drive to control the other device.
    SSH - PORT 22

VPN - secure connection between to computer
    Point to Point tunneling - sends data as encrypted traffic(PORT 1723) - CHAP-based Authentication which vulnerabilities for attack

    Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol(L2TP) - Pair with IP Sec to provide security (PORT 1701)

    Interket Key Exchange 
        Main Mode
        Aggreesive
        Quick

    Authentication Header - Protoco used in IPSEC that provides integrity and authentication

    Escapsulation Security Payload(ESP) - Provides, Confidentiality and authenticity of packets

    IPSec
        Transport Mode -
        Tunnel Mode - 


***
TIPS
    This output from the tcpdump command is displaying three packets in a larger sequence of events. Based solely on these three packets, 
    we can only be certain that the server (11.154.12.121) is running an SSH server over port 22. This is based on the first line of the output. 
    The second and third lines are the server responding to the request and sending data back to the client (10.0.19.121) over port 52497. 
    There is not evidence of an attack against either the server or the client based on this output since we can only see the headers
    and not content being sent between the client and server.


    IPSec is the most secure protocol that works with VPNs. The use of PPTP and SSL is discouraged for VPN security. 
    Due to this, the use of PPTP and SSL for a VPN will likely alert during a vulnerability scan as an issue to be remediated.


    Port 443 is used for HTTPS traffic. Therefore, this port must be opened. This is secure web browsing over SSL or TLS.
     Port 21 is used for the File Transfer Protocol (FTP). Port 80 is used for unsecured web browsing (HTTP). Port 143 is used for Internet Mail Application Protocol (IMAP).

***


---------------------------------------------------------- Section 28
Redundancy - helps ensure fault tolerance

Redundant Power
    Redundant Power Supply
        Surge - unexpected increase
        Spikes - Jump a lot
        SAG - unexpected decrease
        Brownout
        Blackout

Backup Power
    Uninterruptible Power Supply(UPS) - Battery backup
    Backup Generator - emergency power


Data Redundancy 
    Redundant Array of independent Disk(Raid)
        RAID 0 - provide data striping across multiple disk to increase performance
        RAID 1 - Provides data by mirroring the other data
        RAID 5 - provide data striping across the disk drives(Minimum 3 drive)
        RAID 6 - Double parity data across, 2 stripes(modify of RAID 5, minimum 4 drive)
        RAID 10 - Creates a striped RAID of two mirrored RAIDS (minimum 4 drive)

        Remember - Fault-Resistant, Fault-Tolerant, Disaster-Tolerant


Network Redundancy - on ensuring that the network remains up

Server Redundancy   
    Cluster - two or more servers working together to perform particular job function.
        Failover Cluster
    
    Load-Balancing cluster

Redundant Site
    Hot Site - 
    Cold Site -


Data Backup

Tape Rotation
    10 Tape Rotation - two weeks
    Grandfather-Father-Son(Daily, Weekly, Monthly)
    Tower of Hanoi - 

    Snapshot Backup

Disaster Recovery Plan
    - 

Business Impact Analysis(BIA)


***
TIPS

    Since this is a Media Streaming Server, you should implement a RAID 0 which provides disk stripping across both drives. This will increase the speed of the data delivery,
     but provides no redundancy. If you were concerned with redundancy, then you should choose a RAID 1 which uses a mirror of the data on both hard disks. 
     You cannot use a RAID 5, since this requires a minimum of 3 disk drives and stripes the data across the hard disks. 
     You also can not use a RAID 6 since this requires at least 4 hard disks with dual parity and disk stripping.

    
    Mean time to repair (MTTR) is a basic measure of the maintainability of repairable items. It represents the average time required to repair a failed component or device.

    An uninterruptible power supply or uninterruptible power source (UPS) is an electrical apparatus that provides emergency power to a load when the input 
    power source becomes too low, or the main power fails. A UPS provides near-instantaneous protection from input power interruptions by using a battery backup. 
    The on-battery run-time of most uninterruptible power sources is usually short (less than 60 minutes) but sufficient to properly shut down a computer system.

***



---------------------------------------------------------- Section 29
Social Engineering
Pre-texting

Inside Threat - Data loss Prevention

Phishing - (Going for everyone)
    Spear Phishing - an attemp Fraudulently obtain information from a user, usually by email that targets a specific(Going 1 or multiple)
    Whaling - highers up like CEo, CFO, CIO
    Smishing - Phishing conducted on SSMS(TEXT)
    Vishing - Phishing over voice(CAll)


Motivation Factors
    Authority
    Urgency
    Social Proof
    Scarcity
    Likeability
    Fear

More Social Engineering
    Diversion Theft
    Shoulder Surfing
    Dumpster Diving
    Baiting
    PiggyBacking
    Watering Hole Attack


---------------------------------------------------------- Section 30
---------------------------------------------------------- Section 31